Bloomberg Audio Studios. Podcasts,
radio, news.
>> [music]
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the Odd Lots podcast. I'm Joe
Weisenthal. And I'm Tracy Alloway. Uh
Tracy, it's April 9th, uh
9:05 a.m. There's a ceasefire-ish.
It's sort of there has been something
announced that's called a ceasefire.
There does not seem to actually have
been much of a cessation of fire per se.
Maybe it's slowed down a little bit.
Some of the headlines this morning are
about Israel continuing to strike hard
in Lebanon, Iran saying that well, if
there's no ceasefire in Lebanon, there's
no ceasefire at all. But, you know,
overall, at least as of right now, you
know, the market, etc. We saw that huge
drop in oil Tuesday night. You know, the
market's still sort of still sort of
buoyant, right? Still sort of resilient.
>> Well, I think the important thing for
the purposes of this particular
discussion is if you take a look at
what's going on in the Strait of Hormuz,
it still seems to be shut more or less.
Um and shout out to the Bloomberg
function uh E Can Hormuz go. You can see
the number of ships that are going
through that particular choke point, and
I have two as of today, which is
basically not two today. There was some
there was some headlines about how maybe
even in the uh the good case, they would
let through 10 to 15, which is still
sort of nothing compared to normal ship
traffic. So, like nothing's back to
normal. I was going to say, to your
point, I think the thing that's
confusing everyone is we keep seeing
these headlines about like a billion
barrels lost of world supply or 20% of
the world's oil supply now choked out
because of the Hormuz situation. And
yet, if you look at the oil price,
>> Yeah. you know, WTI, Brent, they're
definitely up, but they're not up as
much as you might think given the scale
of disruption. I think many people feel
intuitively the price should be higher.
And then, of course, there's the whole
uh
refined products situation, which is
more extreme. And a lot of the prices
that feel really extreme in general have
happened in uh where we see it in East
Asia, whether it's like Singapore jet
fuel, etc. Or a lot of the headlines
that you see about extreme rationing
come from East Asia. I forget which
country was. They were like, you know,
they're doing that classic thing of only
drive to work if your license plate ends
in an odd number on this day. Whatever.
>> Yeah, and we're seeing a lot of these
types of headlines, some in Korea, some
Thailand, etc. So, it also then raises
the question, you know, the the Strait
of Hormuz is closed, maybe it'll be
open, but does this change future energy
trajectory in some way?
>> Does this mean there's going to be more
comfort with coal mining over the long
term? Does this mean that economies are
going to try to accelerate
decarbonization efforts more intensely?
Could this be a huge boon for the
American LNG industry, where we know
we're building a lot of export
terminals, etc. And if
uh you know, impair there's some sort of
impairment to Qatari LNG, then I don't
know, huge questions about even just
setting aside market pricing right this
second or this week, the the the future
of energy. One thing about our current
market moment is we are getting like a
crash course in real time about the flow
of energy throughout the world. And as
we will see in this conversation, like
it is still very much geographically
constrained, East versus West. And so,
as you say, the big question is whether
or not the East kind of I don't know,
scrambles even harder to adapt to this.
Well, I'm very excited to say we do in
fact have the perfect guest, someone who
knows about all this stuff, someone
who's been on the podcast before, but we
haven't talked to him in years, which is
really sad because we really like the
guy. And so, very excited to welcome
back onto the show Alex Turnbull. He's
an investor based in Singapore, but he's
also a researcher with the Australian
National University focused on energy
security. Really knows the energy scene
very well, spends his time thinking
about the present and future of energy.
So, Alex, thank you so much for coming
back on Odd Lots. Thank you very much.
It's great to be back on.
Yeah, really really appreciate it. Talk
about like right now, you know, this
phenomenon that we talk about where you
prices are up, but you know, by some
measures still within some sort of
historical range, whereas the headlines
that you see about rationing, etc. like,
well, this is extremely dire, etc. Give
us your lay of the land from the from
the from the Asian perspective, from the
perspective of East Asian countries.
Like, how dire are things just like
right now without that without that
flow? Terrible, frankly. The challenge
right now for Asia is that most of their
crude supply does come from the Middle
East. Uh or there are some countries
which do have some domestic production.
Um
uh Malaysia, China, of course. But
broadly speaking, Asia is a massive
crude importer and principally from the
Middle East. Because it's the most
proximate supply and generally has the
cheaper shipping distances and costs.
So,
Asia is very heavily exposed right now
and more acutely thinking about
the impacts might be and how they might
want to pre-answer than the United
States, of course, which produces a lot
of oil, but still needs Middle Eastern
grades for blending and refining. Also
Europe, which has access routes um quite
readily.
How much do the spot prices actually
matter at this moment in time? Cuz you
know, you can look up something like
Dubai Oman or some type of oil that you
would assume would be maybe flowing into
East Asia, and you can look at the spot
price, but like if it's not actually
moving, does that like moving out of the
Strait of Hormuz into Asia, does that
mean anything? Uh it does certainly for
some grades. So, for Omani crude can
still be loaded and is being loaded.
There's a real prices, prompt Brent uh
these are and
uh those those sorts of trades are are
real. So, you're often seeing even for
loadings from Yanbu in Saudi Arabia,
OSPs, which are I guess, you know,
indications of price, are anywhere from
20 to 25 dollars above whatever the
prevailing Brent contract is.
So, in terms of like um the knock-on
effects on the economy, we mentioned
some of the rationing thing. Okay, yes,
this is very
there's they're highly exposed to it.
What are Is it Is it hitting now? Is it
Is the economic destruction already
taking place? Like, talk to us about
like just sort of like I guess on the
ground figuratively and literally, what
are some of the ripple effects that
we're seeing?
You're certainly seeing serious
constraints on consumption where they
don't really have a lot of refining
capacity
and where there is they just don't have
large amounts of crude storage. So,
places like the Philippines and Vietnam
are already under some significant
stress.
Uh a lot of it is also driven by the
fact is it's kind of a question whether
you can get credit lines to be able to
pay these prices. And ultimately, the
decision of the refineries is
if they don't have
inputs, they have to shut the refinery
down, which can incur a large amount of
fixed costs and
downtime and so forth. So,
a lot of the players are kind of living
hand to mouth and trying to get whatever
they can to stay open as long as they
can. So, that's how you have this
extreme willingness to pay for prompt
cargoes in order to keep these assets
operating and running. But then, you
know, the futures curve is about 30-60
days, and that's a long time in in the
current febrile context, where you could
get resolution or not. And so, that that
disconnect is going to remain, I think,
so long as there is no sense of a clear
path here.
Who's not getting energy? Because, all
right, if there are some entities that
are almost going to be priced completely
price insensitive. They have to keep the
lights on. They they're going to just
pay whatever. So, you get these huge uh
short-term spot prices. But volume is
volume. And so, who is actually being
forced to turn off the lights or not run
a refinery or whatever because they're
getting outbid? If there are fewer
molecules, there are fewer molecules.
Yeah, I mean, certainly less
um high-income countries in Asia. You'll
start to see quite an acute crunch in
the Philippines. So, they've recently
secured some cargoes from China on
one-off basis. Some Vietnam, the same.
You know, places like the Pacific
Islands, they're they're in a not very
good place. So, it's already starting to
begin the demand destruction starting
mostly caused mostly by income.
So, you mentioned refineries there, and
one of the headlines that's come up
recently is Asian refining margins slip
into negative territory, which would
seem like a bad thing if you're a
refiner. And I take the point that you
need to keep these assets going because
it's hard to shut them down and then
restart them again. But if you're not
making any money,
how long are these refiners actually
going to keep going for?
Well, for some Chinese uh teapot
refineries, just smaller private ones,
um
they live in a different political
economic context, and if they're
told to stay on, they will. They you
know, it depends on which In many of
these countries, you don't have purely
market-priced fuels. So, whether that's
Vietnam or China, um places where you
have market pricing pass-through, like
Australia, the um price of fuel is
getting very expensive indeed. So, in in
those situations basically where traders
have mentioned a refiner might be
actually operating at negative margin,
that's in an environment in which the
retail price of fuel is not liberalized.
There's a set the government sets the
price of fuel or sets some band or
something like that and the refiners
just have to keep operating until the
next time that band is changed.
>> Yes. Okay, got it. So, what are you
saying let's talk about you know right
now is this is there what's happening
with US LNG? Is it all being taken up by
Europe? Is Europe Asia trying to get in
on the action or bidding for cargos?
Like what's happening with American
flows? American flows have gone up in
Asia
quite sharply right now. So, Asian
prices in spot with even the JKM futures
above European TTF or title transfer
facility futures for
the next period. That could change
quickly, but at the moment Asia has a
much higher urgency and willingness to
pay as they go into summer, higher power
demand from cooling air conditioning and
also just a much more acute dependence
upon LNG in certain countries.
So, in Europe you've also so you're
going into summer, you have this solar
and wind and it's not quite panic
stations just yet. So, I think Europe
will be a little bit more slow to fill
its storage, but then
this goes on till say June or July, then
that's when the real panic will set in.
>> [music]
[music]
>> For Asia, how much of a role does
Russian oil play right now in terms of
replacing lost Middle Eastern supply?
I mean most of the Russian crude has
already been sold anyway and it was
being sold very heavily into Chinese
refineries and tea pots. So,
it's not like it some of it was sitting
offshore when it was going through a
period of more robust US sanctions. The
the offshore barrels of oil on water has
been dropping very sharply as all that
crude has been absorbed into various
places India,
China like I said.
So, yeah.
So, I think I think that sort of that
that that has provided something of a
buffer to this shock because there was
this backup of Russian crude that
couldn't no one was quite sure whether
they could pay for it without getting
sanctioned by the US, but of course
that's mostly the way in the current
context.
You mentioned that the Philippines has
imported some gas from China and I'm
curious like what has has China we know
they've been a big accumulator over the
years generally of natural resources and
they have strategic stockpiles and so
forth, but right now what are they doing
and are they trying to play some role in
stabilizing or easing the crunch for the
region overall?
I think they've been very strategic.
They're they're not suddenly there's a
there's more or less control on exports
of oil products right now, which is not
very helpful for the region because they
have over time been large exporters.
They are clearly doing this in a very
targeted fashion and I would assume
there's
other considerations behind that.
Wait, say more.
Uh well,
for example, China has territorial
disputes with the Philippines and
Vietnam in the South China Sea and
they've now got something they want. So,
Interesting. Okay, that makes sense.
Yeah, oil as geopolitical tool is a tale
as old as As old as time.
>> I was going to say time, but I guess as
as old as what 200 years or something
like that. Okay.
So, we were talking about the potential
for an energy crisis to actually hasten
decarbonization efforts in Asia and this
is something that came up before on an
episode we did on China's teapot
refineries.
Are you seeing rumblings of that at the
moment or are people still in sort of
wait and see mode?
Uh no, there's definitely been a notable
pickup in certain areas where there was
already a bit of momentum. So, in Japan
they have been undertaking a number of
nuclear restarts.
They've been we're moving very
tentatively
as the public got behind nuclear and the
politics became less challenging and
that that is all apparently accelerating
now. So, Japan will
push very hard on nuclear restarts and
more importantly the public polling is
really strong for it. So, there's not a
lot of political risk and of course
Kishida had a massive election win. So,
she's in favor of it, the public's
behind it and there's a matter of
necessity now. So, I think that's
something one could assume is only going
to move faster.
Oh yeah, and then in Korea there's also
more of a push for nuclear restarts, but
that's that's moving quickly. China is
doing some very pointed stuff to try to
reduce LNG burns and use in chemicals.
It's tricky and tricky to if you've got
a plastics plant that's kind of hard to
do, but they're having a red hot go at
it and similarly you're also starting to
see a staggering acceleration in EV
adoption. If you do calls to auto
dealers around Asia
and ask them how much time electric
vehicles stand at lots down to single
days and many of them are back ordered
now. So,
if they probably wasn't EV lot
>> you're doing? Are you calling up the car
lots and asking them this? Yeah, of
course.
Wait, say more about this and what would
they have said? This is actually this is
a this is not this is new
this is new is underground information,
but talk about this like what would they
have said a month ago? What are the type
of dealers you're talking to? What would
they have said a month ago and what are
they saying now? I mean
you know, January
when there was
>> Yeah. you would say BYD cars for
example, couple of dealers in Australia,
Singapore, other parts of Asia, they
would be on the lot for
25 plus days and you know, the inventory
turns were kind of a bit slow and the
market did look kind of glutted. We're
down to single digit days
in most places now. So,
anything China can produce out of the EV
sector, I think we'll get sold this
year. That's just really the the
constraint is on the supply side not on
the demand side now.
I don't know the degree of granularity
that you pay attention to American
politics. Are you familiar with do you
know who Thomas Massie is? Does this
name ring a bell? Uh yeah, yeah. He's
he's a He's a Kentucky from congressman
from Kentucky who drives a Tesla with a
bumper sticker that said this
this Tesla is powered by Kentucky coal.
So, he's like you know, he's he's a
politician from Kentucky Republican
who's very pro coal, but he's also pro
Tesla. So, he has his coal powered
Tesla. Is that basically the sort of
near or medium term future of Asia,
which is like okay, LNG is impaired,
BYDs are flying off the lot and so
essentially we have a lot of like de
facto coal powered Teslas driving around
or sorry, coal powered BYDs flying
around? To a certain extent, yeah. I
mean it's also there's also a very hard
analytic math behind this in the sense
that there are
the Straits of Hormuz do not aside from
the east-west pipeline, which looks like
it got pretty badly hit today over the
last 24-48 hours. There is no way for
that oil to make its way out otherwise.
So, this is very different to 2022 where
you have sanctions, you have this and
that, but the spice will flow if it can
physically move or be moved by
pipelines, by rail, what have you. And
so in 2022,
I was pretty sanguine about the impacts
on the oil market because
Russia's got a lot of pipeline capacity
to China, to through Kazakhstan and
there was clearly not really the
appetite to do full on shadow fleet
sanctions
that would be required to slow that in
this case you actually just can't get it
out.
That's all there is to it. And so, if
you look at that vulnerability with
oil where
20 plus percent of the market comes from
the Middle East and LNG, which is about
the same numbers. And then you look at
say a big network flow graph model of
global coal market, which I've done
the coal is not really dependent upon
choke points.
The biggest producers are places like uh
you know, first of all China produces an
enormous amount domestically. It's the
world's largest producer. India does
too.
Australia, South Africa, these are all
places with access to open ocean, no
quirky straits. And so, you don't really
have to worry too much about whether
some geopolitical event takes out coal.
The the most reliable option of course
is just producing stuff in country,
whether that's solar, wind, you know,
batteries, nuclear. But in a pinch and
currently I think coal is going to have
a bit of a comeback for that reason
alone.
Yeah. Um setting coal aside for a
second, when you look at alternate
sources of energy, do you have like
I don't want to say a personal favorite,
but which one which one of them do you
think comes out on top in the sort of
medium to longer term from this
particular situation? It's like asking
someone well,
you know, what one should I grow? What
what what what should I plant? I'm like
well, okay, where are you?
So, if you're anywhere close to the
equator or have a good solar resource,
solar is crazy cheap.
And if you've got it year round,
batteries are also pretty cheap. That's
that's that's hard to beat.
If you're somewhere in the Baltic or
something, then it's wind, right? So, I
think the appeal with solar, which is
that you can roll it out very quickly,
particularly with households. And it's
interesting you're already starting to
see the impacts of Australia's
government
pushing um residential batteries.
And that is that the intraday spreads in
power in Australia are very subdued. And
the gas-fired generators are not really
pricing the market anywhere near as
often as they used to. And gas burns
have actually collapsed as they have in
California.
So,
if you want to kind of decouple from gas
prices, batteries plus storage solar
plus storage is is a very quick fix and
can be rolled out very quickly. And it
seems to be working very well in
Australia. The the the price impact of
this shock is
vastly less than 2022 already.
This is really interesting. Talk about
that spread. So, in
to some extent,
would it be fair to say that a proxy or
a gauge of how well solar plus batteries
is working or affecting a market is not
in lower prices per se, but in a
diminishing spread between the highest
and the lowest price of the day and that
you have this like growing, you know,
that it's a sign of a sort of like pure
power stability?
Yeah, I mean, one one thing in power
markets is a spark spread. So, what is
the
what is the cost to get out of bed for a
gas-fired power plant? So, you take the
heat rate times whatever the gas price
is and you work out how many hours a day
over a week effectively priced by gas.
And what happens What happened in
Australia was we had a lot of solar and
not much storage. And still the peaks
were still very expensive because that
was the gas plants knew they could set
the price. What's happened with this
proliferation of storage is that the gas
no longer reliably sets the price in
those hours. And particularly in
Australia where it's often somewhat
oligopolistic market structure, having a
lot of residential batteries tied
together in a in a mesh network which
then bids into the market is really
crushing those um those peaky times of
the day. And that has a disproportionate
impact on average daily prices.
The problem in places like the UK is
there's a lot of renewables. There's
really no storage. So, they're not
getting much benefit out of this cuz
they still get priced on the margin by
gas. Is it just cuz they haven't made
the they had they have to bite the
bullet and buy a lot of batteries from
China or like what is
why is there the lack of storage to
complement the renewables in the UK?
Market structure design. They're they're
they're fixing this right now and I'm
sure they'll be in a very different
place in 2 years. But it was a something
of an oversight, I would say.
Mhm.
So, one of the things that stood out
from a previous episode we did on the
energy situation with our Bloomberg
colleague Javier Blas was he was talking
about how the world is still very much
divided between, you know,
I I guess east of the Suez Canal and
west of the Suez Canal. And if you're
east at the moment, you have energy
problems because of the situation in the
Strait of Hormuz. And if you're to the
west, maybe
the pressures aren't quite as acute just
yet. And one of the things we keep
hearing from the Trump administration
is, well, we have a lot of oil here in
the US. We are hashtag blessed in
carbons and molecules and all of that.
When would you expect or would you
expect at all
the pressures from the Middle East to
start really filtering into the the
western part of the world? Um well, I
mean, like I said earlier, you're
already seeing it in uh LNG. So, Asian
buyers outbidding
European buyers now, that's obviously
pushing up prices for Europeans. You are
seeing more and more tanker traffic from
the Atlantic basin move towards Asia as
Asia just is happy to There's maybe 10
or 15 dollars more shipping cost, but
they are willing to bid those barrels at
this point. They they do not care.
So, the idea that any of these systems
are going to be There are frictions
caused by shipping and and time, but if
the pull is and the need is that acute
in Asia, they'll absolutely find its way
to the western hemisphere.
>> [music]
[music]
>> So, there is this view and I think it
really started with um
well, some people have had the dream for
very long time, some of the great
pioneers of the industry. And then but
then in 2022 with Russia's invasion of
Ukraine, there's like, okay, the future
belongs to US LNG exporters. That this
is just we are going to keep growing
export adding export terminals forever
because there's just going to be all
that we have all this gas and there's
just incredible demand for it all around
the world. Is that story at risk? I
mean, again, like if part of the thing
that's going to happen is that around
the world there is this and the
political appetite for restarting
nuclear and so forth is higher. Are
there any weaknesses in the US LNG
growth straight up line up forever
story? Uh I think there's a lot of
problems with it. Um but they're they're
mostly due to overall problems with gas.
First of all, the gas turbines you use
to build a power plant in nature are the
same ones you use to build a data
center. And the Huh. cost of a turbine
is now it's over 2,500 dollars per
kilowatt. It's It used to be about a
thousand. I mean, this is
the this this crunch in
uh gas-fired turbines is,
you know, well well well well noted, I
would say. Then you have the issue of
So, you're you're kind of been your
customers have been priced out of using
gas for that reason alone.
Then you have this geopolitical risk
attached to supply from the Middle East.
There is no certainty that that if there
is some sort of toll on the Straits of
Hormuz that the Houthis might say, well,
I'd like some of that too, please. And
then we have another issue in the Red
Sea. So, I think
while US supply is probably lower risk
depending on the actions of the US
government, of course, people are
overall looking at this market and
thinking, well, is this really what I
want to build my power grid on? And the
answer is probably not.
>> So,
I got it. So, US LNG, yes, that is a
perfect substitute for LNG from anywhere
else. The big question is if LNG
generally has the potential for such
volatility, then maybe a country just
decides, oh yeah, okay, the US exists,
but maybe a country just decides, this
is not the future of energy for me.
Yeah, they might just look at this and
say like I I don't I don't want this
I'm this is far too much crazy in a
five, six year period and I I'd like I'd
like something boring, please.
We're all full up on crazy. Yeah. Um
so, one of the reasons we wanted to
speak to you is cuz you are in Singapore
and, you know, in Singapore you can
literally see the tankers sitting out
there in the straight of Malacca. But
talk to us about the general vibes in
the city as, you know, a big hub of oil
trading.
It's it's very interesting. Um
people in the physical business are
seeing levels of stress that are
extraordinary. And then they look at
their phones at equities and
just that I get it. Yeah, we don't get
it either. Uh and it's also what is
quite challenging is people who have
been in the physical trading dealing
with this part of the world and
have a deeper empathetic anthropological
sense of
how a toll is likely to be received in a
lot of that world or whether that's a
stable configuration.
They have their doubts on whether we can
get back to normal terribly quickly. So,
so there's that. People in government
are taking this extraordinarily
seriously. They're very concerned. They
are
uh Singapore
uh I think is more than most places has
a real sense of
what a wartime economy looks like due to
historical reasons from the fall of
Singapore and World War II.
And so, I can tell that there is a
there's a real gravity and then I think
that's coming out certainly through some
of the comments of the foreign minister
Vivian Balakrishnan.
Do you think I mean, talking just pure
politics, like,
okay, the US and Israel, they start a
war and suddenly everybody around the
world immediately has to do rationing,
higher energy prices, etc. You know, for
years there was this talk like, okay,
the US is going to pivot to Asia and try
to have closer relationships with some
of the non-China Asia countries and so
forth. And just generally like does this
We hear We hear about this the version
of this conversation
we hear most about is in Europe, right?
And they're like, what is the future of
our relationship with the US? What is
the Asian version of this conversation
and thinking about the future of the US
either as some sort of like business or
political partner?
The problem is this, is that
if this is what one side of politics is
going to be about on a sustained basis,
which is
doing stuff which
doesn't make a lot of sense and is very
damaging and unpredictable.
And the other side is
maybe a bit of a wet noodle at times,
but a bit more predictable. You kind of
need to live through the full cycle,
right?
>> So, so the Republicans are you know, the
what you're saying they're more okay,
more stuff like this. And the Democrats
are the wet noodles. Many people
>> Yeah, yeah, maybe maybe you Okay, we'll
keep going. But then I'm just trying to
make sure that okay, keep going. Yeah,
sorry. So, so I mean, it's uh so, so if
if there's that perception that there's
this going to be this regular source of
volatility. And also, you know, politics
animated by things which
do not really animate Asia, like
evangelical Christianity or
a desire for a caliphate or fighting
with the Pope. And like if this is kind
of what
the US is now, then there is going to be
a natural desire to insulate oneself
from it as much as you humanly can.
And that there are real limits to what
you can do. It's a big economy, it's
very important, but uh you know, food,
fuel,
you know, basic material flow security,
I think is going to be looked at very
differently going forward.
And and I and I think there is uh
that that will lead to a drive towards
much higher energy security, which is
not going to go well with US efforts to
promote fossil exports, for sure.
Is China the natural alternative in that
scenario? I mean, we already talked
about some shipments from China going to
places like the Philippines. Are we
seeing the emergence of that sort of
energy diplomacy?
I [snorts] I I think what people people
have not appreciated well
is that
China responds well to strength.
The US now responds well to strength.
So, who does Trump not mess with? China,
cuz they restricted bureau and basically
threatened to put Detroit into cardiac
arrest and shrugged their shoulders. And
I think what
Europe in particular is missing is that
there are hands they can play that maybe
are not intuitive to them, but doesn't
mean they wouldn't work. The IRGC
appears to have beaten the US to the
most humiliating geopolitical defeats in
Suez.
And
looks like they're going to get a toll
out of it.
So, what do like what
what is the takeaway from how to deal
with the US going forward? But similarly
with China, I mean, they've been very
aggressively coercive on material supply
chains with technology. So, I think this
kind of uh
idea that as a mid-size power you should
be thinking that you need a pimp to keep
you safe on the streets. I mean,
actually all the pimps are bad.
We need we need more pan-America.
>> [laughter]
>> All right. Um you want to leave it
there? I think that's a good place
That's a
all the pimps are bad strike me as a
pretty good place to leave it there.
>> true words. Sorry Sorry if that's too
strong, but it's like sorry.
>> No, no, it's it sounds like a good uh it
sounds like a good spot to leave it.
Alex Turnbull, it's always um great
catching up with you. Really appreciate
you taking the time. Very interesting
conversation. Cool. Thank you. Bye-bye.
>> [music]
>> Setting everything aside, and there's a
lot in in that conversation to talk
about, I think a story that I want to do
more coverage of is essentially
like how solid is the US energy story
actually? Because I think there is this
view that okay, we're
we have achieved oil independence
basically. I know we still refine bring
in some blends of crude from or kinds of
crude from anywhere else, but we have
plenty of oil and then we're going to
have plenty of gas and gas exports are
going to go to the moon. And I think
that like, you know, Alex presents an
argument and there are good reasons to
think that maybe the future isn't going
to be gas related and there are reasons
to not um for economies to not build an
LNG dependent economy. And then, you
know, I think there are like questions
about like well, what what if the oil
depletes a little bit faster than people
think and so forth. So, I just want to
do more on actual like
stress testing the the assumptions about
American domestic energy.
>> absolutely. And it's really interesting
what Alex was saying about um just the
EV dealerships, right? Like you can see
some of this starting to happen and like
the alternative so far is not
you know, turning to US gas. It's not
even buying a Tesla. It's let's buy a
BYD, right? The other thing just on like
a pure basic oil and gas basis, I think
to Alex's point earlier, like there are
these interconnections in the overall
market, which we haven't necessarily
seen like the pressure from one half of
the world come into the other half of
the world yet.
>> Yeah. just yet. And there's an open
question over like
how that happens. Sorry. The reason I'm
not expressing myself well, but um one
of the papers I was reading from Alex's
Substack actually, or one of his
Substack contributions
is a paper from 2022 called The Myth of
US Energy Independence.
>> Mhm. And so, I think there is this like
open question just on a pure hydrocarbon
basis
>> Yeah. how much of the hashtag blessed
America story actually is true. Yeah.
No, I mean, like, you know, a lot of
things don't seem to be going great for
Some things are going better for the US
than others these days, some not so
much. I do think a lot is like, well,
you know, at least we have energy. At
least we're not like it's like
>> basis, sure. [snorts] But like if that
were to change, if they if there were
sort of to get a reassumption sort of
reassessment about America's energy
stability or energy independence or that
would be like a very that'd be a really
big story. I also just think, you know,
it's very interesting that the nuclear
re-acceleration etc. that's happening in
Asia There's nothing like an energy
crisis to change like political will
towards nuclear power.
>> And on that political will, his last
point, which is like what is the lesson
that we keep learning is like strength
matters and you know, it's like Trump um
hasn't gone very hard against China
because China went very hard against the
US. Iran may end up in a situation in
which it comes out stronger than it was
two months ago where it actually is
collecting a toll, um you know, have
getting a cash cow for the Strait of
Hormuz. So, it's interesting is his
point where it's like, okay, Europe,
other parts of Asia, like what is the
lesson that they learn from this? And
maybe the lesson is that sort of like
biting your time and trying to be
friendly and
uh obsequious and maybe that's not the
answer. Maybe uh maybe stronger lines
are the answer for uh global diplomacy
right now. Also, the pimps are bad, Joe.
All all pimps are bad.
>> PSA, pimps are bad. All right, shall we
leave it there? Let's leave it there.
This has been another episode of the Odd
Lots podcast. I'm Tracy Alloway. You can
follow me at TracyAlloway. And I'm Joe
Weisenthal. You can follow me at The
Stalwart. Follow our guest Alex
Turnbull. He's at AlexBHTurnbull.
Follow our producers Carmen Rodriguez at
CarmenArmen, Dash Bennett at DashBot,
and Kilburgs at Kilburgs. And for more
Odd Lots content, go to
bloomberg.com/oddlots
for our daily newsletter and all of our
episodes. And you can chat about all
these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
discord.gg/oddlots.
And if you enjoy Odd Lots, if you like
it when we talk about the future of
global energy, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. And remember, if you are a
Bloomberg subscriber, you can [music]
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
ad-free. All you need to do is find the
Bloomberg channel on Apple Podcasts and
follow the instructions there.
>> [music]
>> Thanks for listening.
>> [singing]
[music]